Why Netflix is reportedly looking to raise prices for ad-free tier

Netflix (NFLX) is considering raising the price of its ad-free plan after the SAG-AFTRA strike concludes, according to the Wall Street Journal. Other streamers such as Warner Bros. Discovery (WBD) and Disney (DIS), have raised the prices of their ad-free tiers. Third Bridge Analyst Jamie Lumley joins Yahoo Finance Live to discuss the latest on Netflix and where the price hikes could start.

“On the backs of the writers' strike finishing, whenever the actors' strike finishes, content prices will likely be more expensive,” Lumley says. As Netflix thinks “about their underlying profitability, finding a way to really strengthen their position, price hikes is one way to really do that.”

Lumley notes that streamers are finding increased value “in driving people to the ad-supported tiers.” Ad-supported plans for a lot of streamers have not increased in price so “by raising the price on the ad-free, they’re hoping they can drive further traffic there,” Lumley states.

For more expert insight and the latest market action, click here to watch this full episode of Yahoo Finance Live.
Video Transcript

JULIE HYMAN: Another company that we're watching today in a story we're following is Netflix, reportedly eyeing further price hikes for its ad-free platform following the conclusion of the actor's strike, whenever that happens. According to the Wall Street Journal, the streamer is discussing hikes in several markets globally, but will likely begin with the United States and Canada.

With more on this is James Lumley, sector analyst at Third Bridge Group. Obviously, Jamie, we don't know when the strike is going to end. But what kind of pricing power do you think Netflix has?

JAMES LUMLEY: It's a great question. And thanks for having me on today. As we look at the news today regarding whether or not Netflix will be raising these prices at the conclusion of the actors' strike, there are a couple of things to keep in mind. One, if we just first look at as the why that they're doing this, on the backs of the writers' strike finishing, whenever the actors' strike finishes, content prices will likely be more expensive as Netflix really thinks about their balance sheet, they think about their underlying profitability, finding a way to really strengthen their position. Price hikes is one way to really do that.

Another thing is just also something we've been hearing from our experts for a while now and is the increasing value in driving people to the ad-supported tiers. Most of the ad-supported tiers for Netflix and competitors alike have not seen prices be shifted in the last year or so. So by raising the price on the ad-free, they're hoping they can drive further traffic there as basically the underlying economics are increasingly attractive on the ad tier.

When it comes to pricing pressure, we know certainly Netflix is often viewed as one of the leader in this industry, the early mover, the only profitable streaming company. So what they can command on pricing is definitely an interesting question. By and large, they are viewed as one of the key platforms by consumers to keep when they're looking through which platforms are worth their time, which ones are seeing high engagement, but necessarily how much that will translate in their ability to raise prices from where they are now remains to be seen.

- And Jamie, let's say they roll this out, they raise prices. Where do you think they would do that, Jamie? What geographies? I mean, do you think that would be US? Do you think it would be Europe? Do you think it'd be both?

JAMES LUMLEY: It's a good question. If we look at where they might do this, it might be good to draw some parallels to where they first experimented with the rollout of password sharing or the crackdown on password sharing because what we've heard from our experts is Netflix is incredibly deliberate when it rolls out something new, it tries to put in changes, to make sure that this doesn't have any negative impacts on its most important markets. For the password sharing, they initially had a crackdown in South America, then in Canada, before being rolled out in the US and other major markets.

But for this, on the flip side, if this is an effective way, does not drive increased churn from Netflix, rolling it out in some of those larger markets will have the largest impact, as Netflix looks to either further strengthen its positioning with increased content costs or just to really see the most traffic driven to the ad-supported tier. They could very well try that in some of the larger markets like the US or Europe.