Netflix considers raising price of ad-free tier: Report

Netflix (NFLX) is considering raising prices for its ad-free streaming plan after the conclusion of the Hollywood actors' strike, according to the Wall Street Journal. Yahoo Finance Entertainment Reporter Alexandra Canal details the streaming service's price hike decision, examining rising subscription costs in the streaming space over the past decade.

For more expert insight and the latest market action, click here to watch this full episode of Yahoo Finance Live.
Video Transcript

RACHELLE AKUFFO: Well, Netflix is reportedly eyeing further price hikes for its ad-free platform following the conclusion of the actor's strike. That's according to the Wall Street Journal. Yahoo Finance's Alexandra Canal joins us with the details. Allie, more pricing-- more pricing increases. We're struggling here.

ALEXANDRA CANAL: Yeah, it's another day, another announcement that probably we're going to get more price increases for these streaming services. Now, the Wall Street Journal says that Netflix plans to do this a few months after the conclusion of the actor's strike. The Actors Guild SAG-AFTRA is currently in ongoing negotiations with studios, so we could see the end to that strike relatively soon, especially on the heels of the writers strike conclusion. But ultimately TBD when these price hikes would hit and by how much those prices would go up by.

The Wall Street Journal said there are discussions to raise prices in several territories around the globe, that it would first start in the US and Canada. And like you've said, we've seen these price increases across the board. Just about 20 minutes ago, Warner Brothers Discovery revealed that Discovery+, the monthly price for that ad free plan will be going up by $2 to $8.99 a month, up from the prior $6.99.

The ad-free versions of Hulu, ESPN+, and Disney+ will also go up next week. And this is coming as companies are racing towards profitability. Netflix is the only profitable streaming service out there and is the only streaming service so far this year to not raise prices. That last price hike came in January of 2022. But according to this report, we're going to see it come very soon.

But besides just profitability, engagement has been really important, and that's why we're seeing a lot of streamers really lean on sports and really utilizing that opportunity to offer different types of tiers to get more people to subscribe to the platform and pay different types of amounts. So Max is going to unveil its sports tier on Thursday. That's going to be free to subscribers until March of 2024 where then it will be an add-on cost of $10 a month.

Disney+ is reportedly looking at a sports option as well, which would be outside of ESPN+. We have Apple reportedly looking at the rights to F1, so sports has become really a big driver to try and increase that stickiness for those subscribers and the consumers. So we'll see where all this leads, but ultimately, unfortunately, that just means more prices that we, the consumer, are going to have to cough up at the end of the day.