JPMorgan cuts Netflix price target, trims estimates

JPMorgan analyst Doug Anmuth cut his December 2024 price target on Netflix (NFLX) to $455 from $505. Anmuth also trimmed his 2024 and 2025 revenue and income estimates for the streaming giant, saying there are “increased concerns that paid sharing is less impactful than expected." Yahoo Finance Live breaks down the report.

For more expert insight and the latest market action, click here to watch this full episode of Yahoo Finance Live.
Video Transcript

BRIAN SOZZI: Market commentary of the day, and Brad, JP Morgan analyst Doug Anmuth is lowering Netflix's estimates to reflect recent comments from management around margin expansion and growth trajectory. He believes the streaming giant's stock remains positive overall but has concerns that page-sharing is being-- is less impactful than expected. And really interesting note here from the folks at JP Morgan, Brad.

But I really-- you really have to start with the fact that Netflix shares down about 14% over the past two weeks. S&P 500 down about, let's say, 4.5%. There's concern going into this Netflix [? call ?] that all the hype around all of the changes, the password crackdown, the pay-- the move to put ads on the platform, it may just be a big fat dud in terms of profits, whether that is operating profits or net profits.

BRAD SMITH: Yeah, some of the key takeaways from this. As a result, their 2024 and 2025 estimates, they come down for revenue by about 2% to 3%, for operating income by about 5% to 6%. And as you're continuing to really evaluate what they're looking towards-- and some of this has come forward during their trending report earlier this month, but particularly remaining overweight here but lowering the December 2024 price target to $455 based on about 24.5 times the free cash flow for the end of 2025 of $8.1 billion.

So all of this considered, I think, as you're looking across the continued impact because of the crackdown on page-sharing through Q3, mobile usage, and certain other sharing instances, suggesting the company can continue to tighten up page-sharing going forward is what they're writing here, but advertising remains the crawl phase here.

BRIAN SOZZI: I like that. It's pretty good.

BRAD SMITH: Crawl?

BRIAN SOZZI: Crawl phase. And-- but you go down to this bottom of this report, Brad, and it is-- certainly there's concern about the near term outlook for a [? company ?] Netflix. But under the investment thesis section, we believe Netflix is a key beneficiary and driver of the ongoing disruption of linear TV. And I think that is an important longer term consideration not only Netflix but, of course, names of like Roku because look what we're seeing out of Disney, Brad.

Here is a Disney under Bob Iger still trying to-- they're flailing around, trying to figure out what to do with their TV assets, and he pulled the trigger on that ABC. He worked at ABC. He understands ABC. That is Bob Iger. So to see Bob Iger out there reportedly shopping those ABC assets, wow, it just tells you that the push to streaming remains not only alive and well, it continues to accelerate and drive a lot of disruption.

BRAD SMITH: Well, you know, one company or one platform that would certainly want for there to not be-- at least as we think about where Netflix has lagged in some of the live element or sports element, they've certainly leaned into some of the nonscripted television most recently. I mean, "Love is Blind" is back for, what, a fifth season?

BRIAN SOZZI: I never saw it.

BRAD SMITH: We just saw the ads behind us in Times Square yesterday. And I didn't know that we were at season five of "Love Is Blind" already. So I'm excited. But it's the trash TV that they've been able to bring on and get people like Brian Sozzi to stay on the platform.

BRIAN SOZZI: Oh, come on. He's going to call me out.

BRAD SMITH: I won't tell them which show you watch. You can tell them that for yourself.

BRIAN SOZZI: Please don't. I will just add this very quickly. I understand the near-term concern on Netflix, but that bidding between Comcast and Disney-- and the FT really broke it down earlier in the week-- that has begun for that Hulu asset. Some of the valuations being ta