Alibaba, Tencent break more digital barriers between WeChat and Taobao-Tmall as economic uncertainty in China mounts

China's two biggest internet companies have tightened their collaboration, allowing users who click on advertisements on Tencent Holdings' WeChat to be directed to Alibaba Group Holding's Taobao and Tmall e-commerce platforms.

The two tech giants announced on Monday that "high-quality" advertisements placed on WeChat Channels, a short-video sharing platform, through Alimama Uni Desk, an Alibaba-affiliated digital marketing platform, can be connected to shops and live-streaming rooms on Taobao and Tmall.

WeChat Moments, a blogging feature, and mini-programs on the social media app already support advertisements linking to Alibaba online shopping sites. Tencent Video, a streaming platform, has allowed direct links to Taobao since 2021.

Do you have questions about the biggest topics and trends from around the world? Get the answers with SCMP Knowledge, our new platform of curated content with explainers, FAQs, analyses and infographics brought to you by our award-winning team.

Alibaba, owner of the South China Morning Post, and Tencent would also collaborate in the upcoming Singles' Day shopping festival, the largest annual online retail event in China, by investing millions of yuan in subsidies and boosting traffic together, Alimama said in a statement.

The Alibaba Group headquarters in Hangzhou, China's eastern Zhejiang province . Photo: VCG via Getty Images alt=The Alibaba Group headquarters in Hangzhou, China's eastern Zhejiang province . Photo: VCG via Getty Images>

After years of fierce rivalry, Alibaba and Tencent started breaking down the virtual walls separating their services in 2021 after the Chinese government doubled on its efforts to break up tech monopolies.

While Tencent once limited the sharing of links to Alibaba stores on WeChat, it now lets users open a variety of links and content within its messaging function.

However, some digital barriers continue to exist: for example, users still cannot use WeChat Pay for transactions on Taobao, nor use Alipay - the electronic payments service of Alibaba financial technology affiliate Ant Group - to pay for goods and services on WeChat mini-programs.

Alibaba and Tencent are both trying to navigate their way out of a slowing economy. A drop in China's consumer prices in July, the first in more than two years, has spurred Beijing on a daunting task to use every tool available in its toolbox to deflate chronic deflationary pressure and avoid the economic stagnation that had plagued Japan for more than a decade.

A 1.7 per cent drop in food prices in August, compared with a rise of services prices by 1.3 per cent, indicated an uneven post-Covid-reopening economic recovery in China.

Amid uncertainty in the macroeconomic environment and rising competition from younger rivals such as ByteDance's domestic short-video sensation Douyin, Alibaba and Tencent have deepened their partnerships.

In July, Alibaba's Taobao and Tencent's hugely popular mobile game Honour of Kings announced an invitation-only competition, with the finals aired on live-streaming service Taobao Live in early August.